In this lesson, we'll see how with full site editing and a block based theme, the WordPress customizer
is no longer active.
And it's now missing a custom CSS area.
You'll activate a custom CSS plugin to be able to add CIUSSS to edit existing layout details if needed,
as well as use the browser developer tools to find the CSE's to target.
By the end of this video, you'll get around one of the limitations of the block based theme system
right now and learn how to use the dev tools to quickly find what you need in a site's code.
So now, if there's any code that you ever wanted to add, like sometimes you want to use a little CSS
code.
You know, the the this this whole template editing system is designed so that you really shouldn't
have to use any CSS code to edit different content that the template or excuse me, that the theme is
forcing you to display on certain pages because you can create your own templates.
But in the case that you do want to add some CSS code.
In fact, I had an example just the other day where I was working on my WooCommerce site and I wanted
to customize the checkout page that WooCommerce was using.
And even though I was using, you know, a block based theme which was using this site editor, I didn't
have a place where I could add some CSS code to the site in order to remove certain things from the
checkout page that I didn't want people to see.
I just wanted to put a display none on a certain CSS class and also assist it so that I could remove
a certain thing and that wasn't available to me.
Let's go back into the dashboard and you know, if you're using a non block based theme, which most
themes in the WordPress environment are these days under appearance, you'll have a customizer, you
know, and that that's the customizer where there's an additional CIUSSS field where you can add.
So let's look at an example at Greg Davis dot com.
If I look under appearance, customize.
You can see that this is a non block based theme because I have customized widgets, menus and those
things are available in a non-black based theme.
So you don't have the customizer when you're working with a block based theme.
And next, we're going to get into non-Black based themes and some really powerful things that you can
use with them.
But this is the customizer that's no longer used in a block based theme based on WordPress 5.9 and later.
But many themes still use the customizer, and this additional CIUSSS area is a place where you can
put KSAZ code that will execute on the entire site.
It saves you from having to add a style that CSS stylesheet to your website in the background by using
a child theme or something like that.
But my point is that this whole area is no longer available.
Now you can see the address forward slash customize dot PHP is here in the address bar, and I'm going
to control C Copy that just so I can show you back in the WordPress sandbox in the WP, of course.
Sandbox.
Here, of course, appearance customize doesn't exist, but if I go to WP admin and after the forward
slash, I add Oops, not too forward slash.
Just add customized PHP that does still exist in the WordPress environment, if you know to put that
in there.
However, only the only thing it has is site identity, where you can add an icon and change the site
title and tagline, which is still available under Settings General anyway.
But there's also the home page settings again available under Settings General, but there's no additional
CSS area right here, so there's plenty of great plugins that you can use to put custom CC with in your
WordPress website, and I've added one to the network here in the sandbox just to show you guys what's
available to you in case you're using a five point nine block based theme or later.
A great one is simple custom CIUSSS.
If you activate that, what it does is it adds under appearance.
Both adds a button to the customizer.
First of all, where you've got simple custom CSS and you can place CC here, which will be visible
here in the customizer before you even save, you know.
So just let me give you an example of doing this, and then we'll go on to the next section of the.
Worse.
But just in addition to the customizer here, the simple.
Custom CSE's window is also available under appearance custom CSX, and that'll give you that same code
in a in a place right here where you can put CIUSSS and change the site of something, change how something
looks.
So let's do this.
Let's look at the home page.
All right, and stay down here for whatever reason.
Let's see.
Let's find using the the dev tools developer tools.
Let's inspect and then look at what we have here.
So we have an H2.
Architectural design, let's see, what do we have?
There's a pea there.
Something we can change.
How about this about us here?
Something where you can find.
Yeah.
Like a.
How about an.
Some anchor text, which is a WP block button with a link.
So the WP Block button link, suppose you wanted to do something where maybe you just wanted to.
Display none.
Well, if I put that in the CSE's code under this CSI class, I'm going to control C copy if I put display
none.
Well, then it doesn't show those.
Now obviously, we can do that a different way.
But this is just to show you that you can use CIUSSS in this way.
Sometimes you just can't do something that that easily.
And so it helps to put in a little CIUSSS to do something like display none.
And look, it's making all the buttons disappear.
Uh, right down here.
But you know what, if I look, what is this button?
It's uh, yeah.
And there's I can't really define that class that specifically, but like, I copied and pasted this.
So let's get out of the DevTools here.
Let's go back into the customizer where we have that customizer available now because of the custom
CSC simple custom KSAZ plugin that we have activated.
So if I just open that up, let's go down to where the buttons are visible.
Here's the buttons I was targeting before.
So if I just paste that little CSS class in there, the way you do cc's is you put curly brackets and
then here's where you put your your CSS code.
All right, so that shows me the result of my success code without taking it live on the site, which
is quite nice if you're playing with a little bit of success.
And so if I publish this now when I go back.
You know, the if I click custom cast that suggests that I'm using is displayed right here, and if
I open the site home page now and refresh the page, you can see that anything that had that CSS class
is no longer there displaying all these buttons.
They call the action button here.
And of course, the buttons under about us.
Now, of course, that's not something that I would want to do.
So I'm going to remove that and update and now this will bring back all my buttons again.
I just wanted to show you that that was a big difference between, you know, a previous version of
WordPress and starting in five point nine when we're working with a block based theme.
Now you should know that even if you're on five point nine, if you're working with a non block based
theme like cadence that we're going to work with next in the course, then you will have the customizer
and the widgets and the menus available to you right here under appearance.
It's just that we've got a block based theme using Frost and also using twenty twenty two.
So that's the big difference and hope you enjoyed that little detour that we took at the end of the
Frost section of the course, and we'll get into cadence in the next section.